what is up everybody welcome to another
episode of after impact I am your host
Tom bill you and I am here with the
magnificent Agent Smith mr. bill you
what is up how you doing
no good I'm fasting right now that's
what I had written fasting so nobody
should get too hysterical but yeah I'll
be until certainly till we're done with
this so how many hours in between where
you don't get food entirely based on my
ketone levels but somewhere around 16
that's a lot of hours there's a lot of
hours yeah
people would if you're doing it you're
not used to it you will officially be
hungry yeah there's no question for sure
but when you're in ketosis especially
because I'm so used to it now like it
really it is so fundamentally different
on weeks where I'm high-protein I'm like
the thought of doing intermittent
fasting is literal torture but when I'm
high fat and actually in a ketogenic
state it's simple very very easy it's
very interesting after impact welcome
everyone this is the live show and
recorded show that goes on a podcast
later that in which Tom and I unpacked
the impact of this week's episode with
Sarah Rob O'Hagan before we get into
that I have a question for you audience
do you consider yourself gritty yes or
no drop it on combat I like I'm gonna be
talking a lot about grit in the impact
but thank you YouTube and Facebook for
joining us you guys hopefully you've
seen the episode this was a really fun
one this one yeah very good if you have
questions for Tom about some of the
ideas that he and Sarah were discussing
in the episode of impact Theory please
PLEASE ask them now this is your chance
this is what we want people to engage
join the conversation yeah buddy
cool should we get I think we should
dive right in okay if you don't know who
Sarah Rob O'Hagan is highly encourage
you to watch the episode I think you'll
get a nice overview of her background
and what she's all about but she is a
very successful executive in marketing
and also she was so she was marketing
director of
Nike yes and virgin truth and then she
was also the president of Gatorade and
Equinox also true and is now CEO of her
company flywheel
yes so she's had a very diverse and long
career very successful career working
with some of the biggest brands in the
world and also has an interesting way of
how she presents and packages her career
her successes and her failures very
honest and very just transparent about
those which is one thing that really
attracted me to her and her story I want
to jump off with talking about I just
want it I guess start with a broad
question what's the one thing that you
think has made Sarah so successful in
her career this is one that is really
hard to put words around but it was the
the moment where she shows up and the
person that hired her so she moves to
New York to take a job at virgin she
shows up person I hired her is has been
fired is no longer at the company no one
is expecting her and she rolls up has a
piece of paper that says I have a job
and so she you know is stuck goes into
the bathroom burst into tears like cries
it out and then realizes wait a second
I've got to go out there and make
something of this so she goes out she
says look I had this piece of paper that
says I have a job so I have a job so
please go get somebody from HR and I
love that one because she was she like
processed the emotion it's not like
she's just some badass that like doesn't
have emotion she has them she processes
through them but it's that moment like
you hinted at that you know grit where
she's like okay wait a second I'm gonna
figure this out
goes in and realizes okay let me just
break down what's about to happen I am
the last one into the company so if
anything goes wrong I'm gonna be the
first one that they fire so I need to
immediately prove that I have value and
this is something that she talked about
in the episode where she said look if
you want to get a promotion if you want
to move up in your company bring sales
in the door she's like if you do that
like very rapidly you will get attention
you will get promoted because it's what
the company needs and wants so she goes
she's
girl nobody knows who she is the person
that hired her has been fired and she
writes this like here's exactly what I
think this company should do
she maps it out does work that has not
been asked of her I want people to
really hear that she didn't wait for
somebody to tell her what to do she
understood the situation wrote out a
marketing plan and slipped it under the
president's door she didn't ask for
permission she didn't go through her
pass like she did the Hail Mary of I'm
gonna bring value at the highest level
possible and then you know whatever
comes comes and she ends up getting a
promotion out of it and like really
making a name for herself right off the
bat and how she responded to adversity
to me like shows everything about her
character that's awesome
so if you had to take a stab at like
really distilling that down into a
quality what would you say
I'm gonna go with grit like overall
that's not the world's cleanest example
of grit but the cleanest example of grit
from her story it's just not quite as
cool of a story for me is she goes and
takes a test to get a job at the airline
she believes that like she needs a job
at the airline in order to get out of
her small town in New Zealand so she
goes she applies takes a test and fails
and it's like wait a second like I know
I can do this so she goes back and she
says I understood I couldn't just say
hey this isn't fair whatever that she
had to really make a case for herself
but she goes and says look I I know I
can do this job get me in front of the
person that is you know actually the one
making this decision I will explain to
them what I want to do for the company
how I'm an add value and so she said she
was so persistent because they just kept
like ignoring her she was so persistent
full stalker mode that finally was like
all right I'm gonna get you five minutes
in front of the guy that actually makes
the decision she gets in front of that
guy explains how she thinks she can
bring a lot of value to the company and
he ends up hiring her and actually made
an additional position for her and then
she knew like I have to deliver again a
crushing amount of value it can't be
like oh you're cajoling and convincing
and somebody gives you a slot now you
have it and you can just relax she was
like getting in
only the beginning so then she really
has to again crush it and those two
things of like the perseverance to get
the job which were gonna sum up by
saying gritty and I think that really is
the key to her success but then followed
up by always being willing to crush it I
love that and she has had these huge
successes because of her perseverance
and because she goes above and beyond
providing value and then she's had epic
failures and she's super honest about
them and transparent and I was just when
I was researching her before she came on
the show I looked at her LinkedIn
profile and can I just want to read the
description yeah yeah a profile director
of marketing Virgin Atlantic Airways
virgin Entertainment Group June 1998 to
June 2002 totally crush it at Virgin
Atlantic Airways with the widely
acclaimed collaboration with the Austin
Powers movie on the campaign virgin
Shagal antic then went on to get
promoted to lead marketing for virgin
megastores where I was fired after one
year for being too cocky unwilling to
ask for help out of my depth and
ineffective that's on her LinkedIn
profile that's amazing when I read that
I was like she's a this she's like won
me over this is amazing because know
everyone's LinkedIn profile is like
perfect the most polished like oh I
brought all this value revenue drove you
know yeah it's always like your best
version of what you did and it glosses
over all of the the mistakes along the
way her VP of Marketing at Atari
Interactive just says epic fail join the
company overlooking the fact that I hate
video games had zero understanding of
the product the consumer or the business
ended up getting sidelined to run
non-core projects and then laid off
that's not really that amazing yeah I
love it I want to ask you because she
takes such a counterintuitive approach
to how she presents herself how she's so
transparent about her failures what do
you like is there something that people
can take away in how they characterize
themselves or present themselves to
other people do you think that people
can adopt that in their own lives they
can definitely but here's what people
need to understand and oh god I know
that some people are gonna look at that
they're gonna take away the wrong
message and the message they're gonna
take away is like hey just lay all your
failures out like - you know for
everybody to see and then they're gonna
be like why didn't I get a job I can
understand what you have to
get about her is this is the humility
that comes from she was [__] good
yeah she was really good she was getting
promoted like really crushing it and
then gets cocky fails because of her
cockiness or taking jobs that she knows
she shouldn't have and and she's owning
that because she knows to the core of
her being that she will execute if she
stops getting in her own way so she is
real about it lets people know but when
they're sitting there talking to her
she's not gonna walk into an interview
unprepared she is gonna be I'm guessing
she is gonna walk in and be the most
prepared candidate that you're gonna
meet she is gonna walk you through a
detailed outline of exactly what she's
gonna do for your company she's gonna
understand your company she's not gonna
be like well I'm not gonna do a bunch of
work just for an interview which people
actually say that is so [__] crazy
like she's gonna walk in ready to rock
she's gonna show you exactly the kind of
value that you can expect from her and
then be like I failed becomes the whoa
she doesn't try to sugarcoat she doesn't
like [__] or hide from her mistakes
and that like when you couple those
together it's like whoa she has real
self-awareness around what went wrong
yeah has taken the time to stop and
assess has learned something isn't
trying to disguise it so she doesn't
view it as like an Achilles heel or
something that's like a a weakness in
her game it was like I miss played a
game it's not necessarily a weakness in
my skill set so here moving forward is
what you can expect for me and there's
gonna be like even in the delivery she's
gonna be money I just having spent the
time with her I know that's true and
when you're talking to somebody in an
interview it isn't always what they say
it's how they say it and that's why
people say confidence is so important
and it really really is and a confidence
is important in all aspects of life so
you know then you can start boiling it
down okay what are the things that give
her the confidence and all that and I
think when you take that down to its
essence the answer is she's taking the
time to actually get good yeah I love
that I'm glad you brought up confidence
because I wanted to ask you a question
what do you think is more important
having confidence or having humility
confidence can you elaborate yeah and I
mean look I'm I'm conflicted about it
because they're both
really really powerful traits so this is
not me saying confidence is powerful and
humility is not I think humility really
plays out in the long run as just an
incredibly effective tool but Eric
Barker it's also detailed this and it's
also been detailed by other people I'm
forgetting who else but this whole
notion that jerks really can get ahead
and and confidence by the way does not
have to manifest as being a jerk so I'm
just taking it out to where it's a
difficult question so even if it goes
all the way to being arrogant I think
that that actually does serve you better
in acute situations for sure than just
being humble and a lot of times humility
allows other people to overlook you look
beyond you and so it's this really
delicate dance when you're gonna have a
chance to back it up I think that you
can be [__] arrogant like really
arrogant because when you deliver
results people will forgive some really
crazy behavior yeah now if you're humble
and also have a chance to back it up
okay then you know you're gonna you're
gonna get your chance I think it will
take longer for people to notice you and
if you look at me as an interviewer I've
done this weird dance with humility and
in the beginning I was I talked a lot
more as an interview herb because I felt
like I had to establish my voice people
needed to know what I was thinking it
couldn't just be I was like the oh thank
you master for showing up and teaching
us right I really thought that would be
a bad way to play it but then as I got
my voice out there and people began to
recognize actually know what the [__]
I'm talking about then it was like
mission number one was to shut the [__]
up so I needed in the early days still
believe that this is true
I needed to establish myself and then I
needed to back off and so as I've had
more chances to do things like this
where I know I'm gonna get a chance to
showcase whether I have advice that's
effective whether you can adopt it use
it in your life and people can be like
whoa you've changed my life I've gotten
results I could put into action in it it
really has had an echo in my life so
from that place now I can be way more
humble I can be way more quiet because
my work quote/unquote is now out in the
world so you do have to balance that but
in the beginning while I don't
I came across arrogant in the beginning
it very much was I needed people to know
that I had a talent and that I could
deliver on that talent it couldn't be
invisible
I couldn't just lead with all I'm gonna
be quiet and sit here and be humble and
let people discover what I've built and
you know quietly in the background it
was like I really had to be way more
aggressive about it yeah for me I think
too if you're going to go in super
confident then you also have to really
take ownership when you fail I think
people who are super confident and then
the gloss over those mistakes then you
lose a lot of credibility for people
could not agree more and honestly like I
would encourage every my core mode is
humility like that's what I feel for
sure because I've failed so many times
so but at the same time I understand the
intoxication of certainty I understand
how much people respond to confidence I
also understand how much confidence
allows me to push forward so yeah it
they are both incredibly usable if
you're only gonna let me have one I'll
take confidence all right like that
let's do a couple shout outs we got
Jacob Lim from England tuning in in the
house yeah we got a couple we got Dan
bro Dan bro from Surrey and UK yeah you
know okay he is uh okay was here briefly
okay I thought he was in the States for
some reason and we got Cherie Nova from
Maryland or Cherie no let's do a
question from the audience real quick
though I just want to announce and
congratulate our winners of the
refer-a-friend contest which we wrapped
up over the weekend
we have sim land coming to spend the day
here in Los Angeles in a couple of
months tony from estonia so
congratulations sim you won the refer
friend contest thanks everyone for
participating it really helped us grow
it was really great to see that
engagement we have two runners-up David
Kim who had a lot of people a lot of
come in and subscribe so thank you David
and I am Syed
so both of those runners-up get a
package like an Amazon echo dot nice
audible subscription and a whole bunch
of things nice and the reason we're
giving
Amazon echo dots isn't as there's an
Alexa skill that you can hear Tom in
your Flash briefing daily motivation
yeah and by the way if you've already
signed up for that flash briefing skill
I want to hear about it like hit me up
on IG send me a tweet something let me
know like I'm doing a lot of different
styles of content and I'd love to know
which ones you guys are resonating with
that would be amazing and if you have
signed up and want to drop a review into
Amazon you would not hurt my feelings
all right let's do a question from our
Facebook audience this is from Lance
Carter is grit really as simple as
practice or is there way to inoculate
yourself against letting negative
results impact your drive okay so those
are actually two very different
questions and I may need you to remind
me of the second one so grit is not as
simple as repetition is the other word
to use practice it's it isn't as simple
as that and for a very detailed
breakdown of what makes up grit and like
how interest and excitement all play
into grit Reed Angela Duckworth book by
the same name really really important
you can develop grit it is not one of
those things though you either have it
or you don't
you can definitely develop grit but one
of the first things you're gonna find
about being gritty is that it really has
to be something that you're excited
about this worthwhile to you for
whatever reason to push through to
suffer through the boredom the
difficulties and all of that and I think
that's the most underlooked part of of
grit is that that it needs to be
something that you're compelled by it's
got to be like cool and exciting and
interesting to you but Angela Duckworth
really breaks it down ok the second part
hit me with it again is there a way to
inoculate yourself against letting
negative results impact your drive yeah
so this comes down to you have a
negative voice in your head in fact if
you haven't already signed up for the
newsletter sign up because this is
exactly the issue that I address in
detail in the newsletter that goes out
today or tomorrow it already went out
this morning perfect so I'm trying to
shift the newsletter or to a little bit
more like here are three things to do on
this out of the other and I happen to go
into how to deal with the negative voice
so the negative voice
actually serves a purpose and can be
very useful but you've got to learn that
you don't have to take it at its word
you don't have to listen to everything
that it says it's like recognize that
it's there and then decide if you're
gonna act on its advice or not the
negative voice is meant to keep you safe
which can be very beneficial it
definitely makes you aware that there
are stakes it's gonna make sure that you
prepare for whatever but when it begins
to diminish your sense of confidence
when it begins to diminish your drive
then you should stop listening to it so
you need to be very very careful to let
that thing step into a role that's
usable and then once it crosses over
into a line where now it's corroding
your sense of self its diminishing your
confidence you have to make it okay in
your own mind to let that go to not
think about it to not pay attention to
that voice that's really really critical
and for me understanding that the
negative voice has a job is to keep me
safe it's not necessarily to help me
live a profound life or to bring value
to the world it's been to keep me safe
and while that may have been very
advantageous from an evolutionary
standpoint it's not necessarily
advantageous now
and so anxiety for instance which is an
outcropping of that negative voice
because that negative voice begins to
heckle you and obsess over all the ways
it could go wrong and tell you that you
probably gonna fail and it's gonna be
really embarrassing and all that and the
point of that is to keep you from doing
something like let's say public speaking
so it's designed to keep you off the
stage so that you don't embarrass
yourself so that you don't get
ostracized from the group which you know
a hundred thousand years ago would have
been catastrophic and would almost mean
certain death now that just isn't the
case it's it's embarrassing and yes that
really sucks but you're not gonna die
and by going out there and doing
something you have a chance to live a
bigger life and to contribute more and
all of that and to chase your dreams and
so once I understood that it didn't
share my goals that voice didn't share
my goals then it was okay for me to
ignore that voice and so I check in with
it I see like it points out things that
I need to take seriously but it tries to
tell me to back off and that I choose to
ignore almost always if you are hearing
the negative voice and maybe you're
feeling like you know that this I'm
getting too much of this right now and I
need to shift back over into something
that's positive are there things that
you do to like change your state of mind
are you
put on some music or or you just it's
really just the the thoughts that are
having in your head usually because I
don't have the time like in the middle
of a business meeting and the negative
voice speaks up yeah and it's like I
don't say that people are gonna think
that's really dumb or you're gonna
embarrass yourself or whatever I can't
be like hey guys hold on a sec I just
Alan a song on goodbye songs actually
really work and I was thinking that last
couple days in the gym I found this play
mode called beast mode on Spotify and
normally I use the gyms a time to find
new songs so some are gonna be up tempo
some will be mellow and you know and I'm
just listening for that one that really
catches me but not really making music a
big part of my workout and then I saw
beast mode and I was feeling a little
bit tired and I thought you know what
let me put this on and it was like boom
this instant shot of adrenaline and I
was like wow I forgot like how
incredible music is for really giving
you that burst of energy allowing you to
totally manipulate your brain chemistry
so music is is one of the many tools
that I've used meditative breathing
which you can do in the middle of a
meeting it can be a little weird you
have to learn to do it like somewhat
subtly but that's breathing from my
diaphragm I do a lot in meetings to
lower anxiety so there are many like
real sort of tactical things that you
can do some will be effective in any
scenario breathing from your diaphragm
some will only be effective in a given
scenario like music question what is on
the beastmode playlist kind of music
there's a lot of hip-hop there's a lot
of oh god I used to know the name is so
well what's that really like it sounds
like transformers like dubstep dubstep
thank you yeah so a lot of dubstep on
there a lot of EDM really up-tempo
aggressive stuff you know you're gonna
get your jay-z or Tupac you know that
kind of stuff nice alright I have a
question around you know Sara says
something in the episode don't ever wait
or worry that someone didn't ask you to
do something just go out and do it
which I really really loved and I
consider that like for me in my head I
think of that as like taking ownership
of things and not just waiting for
instruction but how do you know the
difference between being bold and being
reckless in those scenarios you know
it's interesting I know that this is a
manufactured question for you because
you're really good at this and like you
really shine on both sides of that so
you've got the you and I'll meet for a
weekly meeting and you'll have pre
thought things out and I'll think and
I'm so glad he's thinking about this
because I'm not so take for instance
both the Tom you have too many ideas
going we need to like really narrow them
down I've created this spreadsheet go
through please rank them so that we know
what the priority is brilliant the
YouTube algorithm you were the first one
to start slacking that and saying hey we
really need to research this and I was
like oh my god you were so right so
you're really really good about that and
you're also like I don't turn around and
you're like all right so you know I've
got so-and-so coming over today you guys
are gonna be shooting something like you
would never do that right so you
definitely understand how to walk that
line which i think is really really
impressive now as I've said to you and I
will definitely say to the audience
better to air it like if you're not sure
where the line is then spill over into
reckless that's fine like whoever you're
with will rein you in or make it clear
that they don't want that from you and
if they don't want contributions like
that if they they're a micromanager and
they really don't want you thinking for
yourself immediately leave and those by
the way those are very real people they
actually have that managerial style it's
a terrible [__] style it's actually
really stupid Jay Samet talks really
powerfully about that and understanding
that even if like and now I'm talking to
people that manage people even if the
people that are working for you are not
as talented as you are there's still a
lot of them and so to be players end up
getting more quality work done than one
a player so you need to like find that
balance really being able to delegate to
help paint
the vision explain what you're expecting
all that's just really really critical
and then on the other side like and
Sarah Robbo Hagen talks about this in
the episode and I just wanted to like
jump over and give her a hug when she
was like look stop trying to give your
boss what you think they want because
unless your boss is an [__] they want
exactly one thing for the company to be
more successful that's it and so if
you're able to make the company more
successful if they don't meet that idea
with open arms
like you've got a real problem either
your boss has an ego problem you have a
pitching problem which I want to make
sure people understand this may not be
your boss it may be you but it could be
your boss and so you really need to be
able to identify that if you're not
opening new ideas that's just crazy town
so what your boss wants for sure
definitively is for you to make the
company bigger and better and so keep
going by the way like this is the first
thing I would do if my direct manager
didn't want that I would keep going up
the food chain until I got to somebody
who actually had the businesses
objectives in mind instead of their own
ego and I would just keep going above
them that is high-risk behavior but I
really real feathers a hundred percent
but if you actually and this is the key
[__] if you can actually
deliver value right actually deliver
value if you come to me and say as the
CEO and you say I pitched this idea to
three people before I got to you and
they all shot it down but here's my idea
if the CEO reads that and goes wow this
is actually gonna make the company
better they're not gonna be pissed at
you they're really not because it adds
value now if it's one of those were yeah
it kind of adds value but it's like
there's a thousand things add value and
the people that were telling you know
like that's their job is to figure out
which one's of these to move forward so
now I actually think less of you for not
like recognizing that and just being a
total rogue agent and so you can do
yourself to service but I'm telling you
in life I would rather like my advice if
I had a child my advice would be hey if
if you're sure
back off if you're unsure if it's
reckless move forward and if you get
fired you get fired and you learn and
figure out and you assess and it'll be
very emotionally painful and hopefully
financially painful so you're really
gonna think about
what that lesson was but in that you're
gonna find that lesson being afraid to
act is the thing that terrifies me about
everybody because you're never got like
you never took a chance you never pushed
the envelope you never saw like oh where
did I fall down like was it in I
panicked I froze I wasn't able to
articulate my idea was it I got all the
way to the CEO with this idea that I
thought was genius and they poked three
holes in it like instantly and I was
like oh I was looking at it from my
narrow band of the world I wasn't
looking at it as the company of a hole
which is usually the problem by the time
people get to me they're pitching an
idea that makes sense like if you only
look at one narrow niche of the company
and you're not thinking about the whole
entity and what the grand objectives are
but you're gonna learn you're gonna
learn in that process so you got to be a
little bit fearless in that one I love
it that answer went in an unexpected
path but a very fruitful one thank you
let's kick it over to our live audience
we got a few questions coming in this is
from Dan bra fitness on our Facebook
saying things with confidence and
passion is important I am confident in
my business but I'm not able to speak
with potential clients with passion any
advice on using an effective strategy
yeah practice so right now I'm in the
middle of a fast so before we went on
air I don't know if you noticed this but
I'm actually a little bit low energy
today so before and I've already done
like a podcast this morning and I was
really low energy because it was [__]
early and but right before I go on I
sort of do like an airline pilot would
do a checklist I'm like where's my
energy level okay my energy levels low
what are affect ations that I can do
that'll actually help me combat that
that'll speed my brain up one for me is
to force myself to speak rapidly and
that like that's just something that
I've practiced I've learned how to do
and I can feel myself doing it and at
the beginning of this episode right
before we went live I was like okay when
we go live like I've really got to be
hyped up I've got to have some energy so
like as Ibrahim literally this is if you
guys had seen Ibrahim does this
countdown 5 4 3 2 1 actually stops at 2
and then we know that hey were going
live I was like this as he started the 5
his house just like that's where my
she really was and then he as he got
like down to three I started smiling and
then as it hit one I was like hey you
know and then you just like tell
yourself alright big energy on this big
energy meaning like change your body
posture actually increase your volume
push your diet like I'm literally
tightening my diaphragm force myself to
talk louder do bigger hand gestures
bigger facial like I'm literally running
through all that [__] like an airline
pilot like where my eyebrows like how
much bigger like can I move around like
you know what I mean like what am I
doing with my volume am I like really
like riding the waves going loud
sometimes quiet others you know like get
even just now watching me it's all now
taking over right as I tell you what I'm
doing I actually feel my energy
increasing as I do the bigger hand
gestures as I like crunch my diaphragm
so that I'm really pushing the air out
of my voice
so yes they're like you can't practice
talking with quote/unquote passion nice
I like that I've got a question here
from Stacy Lee it's a long one so Stacy
I'm gonna try to condense it but she
says I have grit and willing to work
hard however how do you get your foot
into a company's door especially global
brands like virgin Nike Gatorade etc can
you share a unique story of how one of
your interns join the IT team that made
him or her stand out I've been listening
for a long time but unable to land a
better career essentially alright so
that is an amazing question I don't know
if this is like a [__] setup if
shawnzy is somewhere typing his own
question so I'll tell you his story it
is the most complete and all of our
interns really did special things to get
here but Sean Z's is the most dramatic
yes so first he starts stalking me
socially a long time ago and actually
makes the proclamation one day I'm gonna
work for you this is back at Quest and
so I'm thinking okay yeah like I people
say that a lot they say either I'm gonna
work for you or I'm gonna be on the show
right so I get that a lot so put
yourself in context when you send those
things and then he showed up to meet me
at a speaking event that I was doing
dressed like me he had remembered he had
an impact Theory shirt
he had the black blazer and literally
even with like a similar kind of lapel
so as soon as I saw him like there was
this affinity right which and it
actually didn't register first why I
felt so like can I and that's like oh my
god this [__] guy's like literally
got the brand shirt on the jacket
because I consider that my uniform when
I speak so he had a high degree of
chance that I would be wearing that
outfit so that was smart and then he
stayed the entire saw was doing an
endless queue a he stayed the entire
time he took everybody's photo so he was
just there he was asking questions but
like not trying to monopolize the
conversation then at the end he said you
know if it's okay I actually have a few
more questions I'd like to ask when it
was literally just him and I yeah he
dove like 27 o'clock yeah and he just he
starts going down them and looking for
ways that he can add value and he said
look I've I've put together a marketing
plan I would love for you to look at it
I want to be an intern and I thought
whoa like he's done all of this work and
his marketing plan was awesome and so I
thought eh he actually knows what he's
talking about which is huge be he's done
all of that just to get an interview for
an internship so then you start asking
yourself man if he'll do all this to get
an interview for an unpaid internship
like what would he do if we put him on
full-time staff and so that be gained
began the dialogue and then he just
stayed really engaged because it was
gonna be months and months months before
he could actually start the internship
but he stayed engaged the whole thing
and then just came in on day one and
started crushing it so adding an absurd
amount of value right that marketing
plan even if nothing else even if he
didn't do anything else just out of
nowhere sends us a marketing plan and
says this is what I'm gonna send you
just to get an interview it's going to
get your attention because I want that
information yeah I remember that it was
very impressive and I talked to him for
a long time too at that same event well
you were answering a lot of questions or
speaking and yeah he was very prepared
had the whole binder marketing plan sent
he had copies for us it was impressive
very so hope that helped Stacey keep
grindin stay gritty all right on that
note how do you know if
you are gritty so the harder question to
answer is how do you know when you
should be gritty and when you should
quit because I think people know like if
you're quitting quitting quitting you're
not gritty the question is are you
quitting quitting the right things and
you just haven't found the one that
you're really gonna push through or not
but I think the easiest way to boil it
down is when you have a goal and the
thing that you need to do to achieve
your goal is either hard or boring do
you push through so what's what's a goal
you've had in your life and did you
achieve it unequivocably or were there
like caveats and asterisks because I'll
say if there's caveats and asterisks
you're not ready like if you've got no
objective in your life that you've ever
like stuck it through to the end you're
just not greedy alright that's a good
test Sara sort of hinted at this but
that she sees a lot of people who don't
know how to sort of be resilient and
shouldn't say this but in the millennial
generation younger people do you see a
generational deficiency of grit I don't
think I think maybe it's like slightly
exacerbated by the whole participation
trophy and the parenting techniques that
I would have used on my kids which is
you really do want to give them a better
life you want to protect them from some
of the emotional pain that you went
through so they just haven't had a
chance to like sharpen it I don't think
that's a big deal and if in their
journey of becoming gritty as [__] like
does it add 5% maybe but like I
certainly don't look at this generation
ago wow there's nobody gritty right so
we have some of the most millennial
[__] ever on this team and
they're also gritty as hell so yeah
there's I'm not worried about that so
you just have to at the end of the day
like recognize young people are at the
beginning of the process of developing
grit which comes from getting kicked in
the face and then deciding like do I
want this badly enough to keep
or not right it's it's the heartbreak
and knowing that you have the choice and
that could be literal remotion 'el
relationship heartbreak or it could be
job heartbreak but you have that moment
of getting fired going through something
embarrassing and you decide do I make
this everybody else's fault or do I
learn something and across generations
people take both paths so yeah I don't
think ultimately it's a big generational
thing I think everybody goes youth is
the enemy of us all and it's largely an
enemy because you just don't have a
frame of reference like the other day
chase came to me and he was saying
something there was something wrong and
I had slacked like why the [__] aren't
we doing this right and so he comes in
to explain it to me and from my
perspective he sounded ridiculous and I
thought he's a beast and he's gonna get
this and I can actually be I think I may
be hardest on chase sometimes because I
really think he's like gonna [__] get
this and so I was I was pretty hard on
him and I can see him like 7 years from
now and each one of these times were he
has to own like [__] you I should have
like handled that and I didn't they're
gonna stack into turning him into a
monster because he's gonna be gritty and
he's gonna get this and he's gonna push
and in the end he's gonna like have
taken all those frames of reference so
if he listened to what I said and as to
why it was a failure and why the way he
was pushing back from my perspective
sounded patently ridiculous like if he
really goes okay
it doesn't feel ridiculous to me when I
say it in fact Tom seems crazy to me it
seems like what he's asking is absurd
why and it in fact literally so I'm
gonna be filming twitch we're doing a
dry run of our twitch content which by
the way we're gonna be going live on
Twitch very very soon only follow us
there by the way if you're into media
it's all on the impact Theory studio
side but if you're into movies TV shows
comics it's gonna be pretty cool and one
of the clips that I pulled is when Luke
tries to raise the x-wing out of Dagobah
swamp and he's saying it's it's too big
it's too heavy I can't do it and Yoda
goes it's only
different in here because he says
different than raising rocks and he said
it's only different in your mind like
always things can't be done with you I
think is the exact quote and it was one
of those moments where it's like just
that the task seemed impossible because
his answer was all I've told people but
nobody's like changing it okay well why
the [__] aren't you changing it like I
don't understand and and so it was yeah
he ain't really have an answer right so
over time he's gonna realize don't wait
for somebody to ask you've got to push
through and develop that stuff so he's
young he's gonna get it this will stack
up it'll turn into him being a just
gritty beast but he's got to go through
that process and it's got a sting and
there's got to be times where he feels
like he disappointed himself there's got
to be times where you know he's fearful
that he thinks oh my god like is this
all gonna go away like you need all
those times to like force you to push
harder you only adapt through stress
that's awesome so when you're hiring
someone and are you looking for grit and
resilience or are you looking for sparks
of it and let's say an entry-level
person is coming on and needs to develop
that so what are you like just really
bad at and embarrassed by me yeah even
just hold it in your head so that you
don't have to say it out loud cuz I
really want that thing that thing that
you know that you're like I need to find
one that's a little more politically
correct but that thing that you know
that's how I feel about identifying grit
like you're jabbing me and my [__]
ribs right now so there are three things
that I look for in an interview I look
for grand ambition I look for Drive aka
grit and I look for compassion
I can tell ambition and I can tell
compassion I'm blind to grit I don't
know how to figure it out and the only
real answer I've ever heard is look at
what they've done in the past yes but
it's like it's so easy to lie and it's
so easy to tell a story and it's so easy
to have been on the team that was gritty
but you weren't actually the one that
was gritty but that is admittedly the
closest maybe personal references but
like in an interview
I just don't know what to do because
grit is when it gets hard when it gets
boring do you keep going and so people
have talked about their tests out there
you can give people a puzzle and see how
long they keep working on it but it's
such an artificial environment like grit
isn't just did you were you gritty one
time it's like are you always gritty is
that how you approach things like when
something's important to you do you just
keep going until it's no longer the goal
that you're pursuing or not and I I
don't other than working with somebody I
don't know how to answer that question
so I feel like I'm I am terrible it's a
hole in my game and I'm embarrassed that
I'm it because it's one of my three most
important things and I don't know how to
see it that's interesting I did not see
that response coming from you one of the
things that Sarah talks about in the
interview is that she asks people for a
failure and everyone has this perfect
marketing response for that and she
asked him for okay give me another
failure until they're basically having
to go back and assess failures that they
maybe haven't polished to be presentable
and that's how she gets to that place
where they've where she can identify
grit man I love Sarah robohand and I
think this this interview was amazing
but I don't know that that's the formula
for finding out grit that's the formula
for finding out if people can win there
on the spot self assess what they're
willing to admit to and seem like if
they've learned but if you ask me
something that I've never thought
through before I can make it sound like
I really know what I'm talking about
and but that doesn't mean I'm gritty it
means that I know what you want to hear
and then I'm very good at identifying
that in the middle of the interview but
and I'll give an example so Nick
Robinson is gritty as [__] and that kid
came on to be the chief marketing
officer of quest nutrition and it was a
very weird decision for him like his
whole family's like what are you doing
because he was we pulled him out of
Hollywood and he was working for
Eisenberg Eisenberg why does that sound
wrong the guy that ran Disney forever
Eisner thing yeah the the voice from
heteros thank you Ibrahim Eisen Michael
Eisner
Heisenberg so he was working for him so
the fact that we got him to come to a
protein bar company was just like a
major coup and his whole family's like
what are you doing like this is insanity
this is crazy so he was like none
another something here and I remember he
he had one edict for me yeah don't make
me make protein bars like I'm here to be
the chief marketing officer and I was
like yeah dude like that would be crazy
the last thing I would want you to do is
when you should be marketing to come out
make protein bars and I remember the
first day the line starts going [__]
haywire and I just yell neck and he
comes in like out of the offices into
the the production line he was like yeah
I'm like broke get a [__] hairnet on
put your lab coat glove up like I need
you right now and he didn't [__]
hesitate and he got in and just worked
and worked and worked and he did not
know what he was doing but he just kept
doing it because he believed this
problem has to be solved for this
company to get where it's going the
company needs to get where we want it to
go in order for me to get from this
experience what I need to get and so if
I have to [__] glove up even though I
said this is the one thing I don't want
to do if I have to glove up to make my
dreams come true then that's what I'm
gonna [__] do you want to talk about
boring you want to talk about hard that
kid ended up making hundreds of
thousands if not more than a million
protein bars in his tenure as the chief
marketing officer and he boxed them up
and he shipped them out and just did
whatever it took and so when somebody
has a goal and they work and they do
anything within their code of ethics
that they have to do to get back to
where they are to cross that chasm their
gritty as hell so that's an example to
me of somebody that really proved over
time that they were gritty did I know
that in the interview no I had a gut
instinct that he could be special but I
didn't know that story never heard that
one before yeah and there are more there
are more all right here's a question
from violet Christine on Facebook this
is going back to the earlier
conversation around negative voice and I
should just remind everyone what we're
doing we are on Facebook live and
YouTube live doing after impact this is
a show where we unpack the impact of
this week's episode there Sarah Hagen
this lovely lady back
on the screen if you haven't seen her
episode go watch it or download it for
your drive home later today it's really
really good especially if you are a
working professional and/or a manager
and a company and you're hiring people
really some good ideas in there but let
me go back to an earlier conversation
this is a question from violet Christine
do you ever use the negative voice as a
compass that points south that your own
resistance to a particular task means
that it's all the more important that
you pursue it not not the negative
voices I think of it but definitely
there are times where I my impulse is
pulling me away that I know that it's
going to be boring or that it's big and
like important and so I really want to
avoid it and do something that's way
lower risk and so I absolutely get that
impulse a lot and fear is another great
one so that like oh this is big I want
to avoid it and fear are often great
compasses to go okay it's the thing I
want to avoid so it's probably the thing
that I should most be doing so I and I
definitely do that a lot and I treat it
like they say in cross-country running
attack the hill right so you're running
like you're going as hard as you can
you're so exhausted and you come to that
hill and every instinct that you have is
the slowdown but what they train
cross-country runners to do is to speed
up and it works men like mentally you're
like [__] this hill like I'm I'm going
hard on this like beast mode here we go
and you really can for that acute period
of time by channeling anger aggression
all of that you can literally attack the
hill and go hard I can just by doing the
facial expressions and putting myself
back in the mindset I can feel what it's
like to attack the hill and it is very
beneficial in acute moments where it's
like okay this is gonna be you know only
a minute and 30 seconds but I'm really
gonna grind this out I'm gonna go way
hard it's it's a super effective
strategy so I definitely use fear I
definitely use that like desire to move
away from something as the trigger for
I'm gonna attack this I'm gonna go extra
hard on this thing because it's
important I'm gonna go extra hard on
this because I'm afraid of it and so
that's really where going so hard on two
things the
the grand vision of the studio scares me
to death and so I attack it harder than
I attack anything else and I just face
everything that I have to face and I
take every meeting that I can get I try
to create as much momentum as humanly
possible because my fear is always
trying to like no no like go do you know
another after impact episode those are
easy like I can just roll up you know
what I mean
so I I find that I've so sort of twisted
my mindset and used other things as the
compasses as she's talking about that
I feel indulgent when I do something
like this because I'm not afraid of it
and I feel like god I should be getting
back to something that scares me that
scares me that scares me because usually
that's where the real stakes are like
that there's another question from Lion
Ola toe dear and why I know that feeling
that's the best idea right now just a
thought
parenthood really develops and builds
grit from your experience have you ever
noticed that people who have kids are
more gritty the sad answer is no and and
I'll say it like this frame of reference
makes all the difference like how you
look at it if a parent looks at it and
goes man like I've got these other human
lives that I'm responsible for they have
an absurd amount of energy they wake up
they're on the go and I've got to stay
one step ahead of them the whole time
and I've got multiple and so I'm having
to track and watch them blossom and grow
as different adults into different
adults and I've got to think like what
works with this child doesn't work with
this child and so I've really got to
build these strategies and like there
are times where you want to talk about
boring it's like the same question a
thousand times it's shitty diapers it's
all that like but I so believe in what
I'm doing I'm gonna see it to the other
end that's amazing like there is a
tremendous opportunity to be gritty to
persevere because it's in service of a
goal something that you really believe
in wanting to make them the best people
that they can be and set them up for
success but many times you hear people
just [__] and it's like they're not
having a good time this they they aren't
connecting it to the vision of like
helping the
child become the greatest version of
themselves they're not connecting it to
how powerful they're becoming as a
parent to like become capable of that
and corralling them and reading the
situation in the nuance and all the
skillset that they're building they're
just seeing I'm [__] tired a lot of
this is boring this sucks
you hear entrepreneurs do the same thing
you hear employees do the same thing how
many employees [__] about their company
and you hear parents talk the same way
about being raising kids right and so
the best piece of advice and I don't
have kids so let me just say I don't
even judge those people I just don't
think it's a effective frame of
reference for enjoying your life the
best piece of advice I ever got about
having kids went like this and I'm in
the moment I told the guy this is the
best piece of advice I'm ever gonna get
um parenting and at the time I thought I
was gonna have kids and I said should I
have kids should I not have kids he said
Tom either way it doesn't matter but
whatever you do do it all the way and
that's when I thought I don't want to be
a parent because what I want to do all
the way is build and I want to build and
I want to play on a global scale and I
want to be on a world stage like those
are meaningful things to me and so that
will inevitably pull me away from the
children so I thought I get it like I
see the path to being all in and being a
parent and it would add up at minimum
would make me feel conflicted about
where I spend my time and I didn't want
that so and that's just mean everybody
needs to make that decision for
themselves but that was such an awesome
piece of advice so if you've chosen to
be a parent be all-in
see how powerful that is frame it as
like really making you the most gritty
human being on earth because in doing
that in attacking the hill and really
like dealing with these challenges as
something that's empowering you
improving you making you a better
version of yourself
giving you more opportunities to
actually succeed at what you want to do
which is turn those humans into like
just incredible people that they're
gonna be proud of themselves that you're
gonna be proud of them like that's such
a cool framing like that I really do
let's go we got a couple time for a few
more questions here's one from Brad
Spann not sure if Brad is on Facebook or
YouTube but thanks for joining us
nonetheless what is the line
bringing value to a company and being
taken advantage of I try my best to add
value and bring sales to my company but
I feel like they're just taking
advantage of my effort Tom does he love
her this question this this is so one I
just need to say thank you for writing
and I really am grateful for that and
I'm about to go [__] nuts on you and
so I apologize for that because I never
want to scare people off in the
community cuz I get it you're putting
yourself out there to ask the question
but man I'm begging you dude the way
that you're looking at the world is is
[__] [__] like it is not going to
help you and that's all I mean by that
you're not a bad person it's absolute I
get it I used to think like that like
the I'm angry at myself for the number
of years that I spent there so trust me
when I say that my aggression is aimed
at myself as much as anybody else but
that way is holding you back if you
actually work for a company that is just
trying to take advantage of you [__]
leave leave but to get what you want the
most selfish thing you could do in the
world is deliver an inhuman amount of
value so let's look at that I'm
delivering all this value and my
superior is stealing all the credit
who's he [__] terrified is gonna
leave the company you so you now have a
massive piece of leverage if you
actually are delivering that value and
aren't delusional let me tell you you go
to him and say hey I'm delivering all
this I'm crushing it and I would do it
for the record I once worked for over
five years without asking for a raise
okay I wanted them to be embarrassed so
that when I asked for the raise I wanted
equity and I [__] got it so let's be
clear about that but value value value I
wanted them to have a fear of loss so
you go to that person once you have
established a crushing fear of loss
where you have delivered so much value
that that person feels a little icky
that you're even under them because they
know oh my god this person is better
than me now you go to them and either
what's your what do you want do you want
better projects do you want more money
and make the ask and when they deny you
know I'm a [__]
beast I can go wherever I want so now
you begin the exit strategy
I don't know how maybe it's three months
maybe it's six months maybe so weak but
you go find somewhere that's going to
appreciate you or I'll do the Sarah
Robbo Hagen move and I'll go this
[__] doesn't recognize or isn't
willing to recognize what I'm doing I'm
gonna start going around them and I'm
gonna start now delivering ideas to
somebody else and I'm and look I'm gonna
do it super strategically I don't have
time to explain that and this one answer
but understand I would build an amazing
relationship with other people in the
company that allow me to go around them
I would deliver a [__] ton of value to
them as well and I would this guy would
have nothing to complain about cuz I'd
still be crushing it for him I'd go
crush it for somebody else and now I've
got two paths you start building allies
like that helping people out and ways
little in big value value value knowing
that worst-case scenario I'm just
getting better every day and more
marketable somewhere else every day
best-case scenario if I can't get this
person on board I get somebody else on
board show them that I've got value I
immediately move over to that area I
start crushing it they're the only the
only way to success the only way to
success is to set the bar ridiculously
high and surpass all expectations it
isn't to complain about somebody's
taking advantage of you it isn't to say
oh my boss doesn't like appreciate this
or like it then [__] move on like
there is only one path be so [__]
good they can't deny you be so good they
can't deny you if they're denying you
you're not good enough it's that [__]
simple like man this is this for me man
this was the moment where I set myself
free and I realized I get it now I get
it now like the only thing holding me
back is me the only thing holding me
back is my ability to get so good that
people can't deny me at everything at
the job at understanding like what
person to go to at getting so good that
I can convince this person to give me
the raise or to make them afraid that
I'm gonna take my talents somewhere else
like that is it that's you've got to get
good at all that [__] and this is a
thing that I love about Sarah Robbo
Hagen is she's like at the end of the
day you just have to be great you've got
to crush it at your job there's no
substitute there's no amount of
campaigning that you can do to convince
people that you're good your work is
either gonna speak or it's not booze
don't block dunks
boos don't block dunks man that was that
was great love that thank you Wow we're
actually a little clap that was good
that was that's the first time never
gotten claps thank you guys very kind so
I just want to put a point on that I
think if I were to sum that I would say
you can't be taking an advantage of
because you have all the agency correct
I love that you say that one more time
you cannot be taken advantage of because
you have all the agency correct I love
that all right we have a few more
minutes left here's a question from
crystal on Facebook and thanks everyone
for submitting questions today we got a
lot so this is really fun Thank You IT
team I loved when Sarah talked about
reinventing herself and how she feels
Restless when she's not growing what
skills are you working on off screen
right now Tom we'll leave it at that
there's a couple more questions we might
come back to you so right now for me
this it's it is all about the studio
like I I wonder sometimes if even Lisa
understands the depths to which I'm
obsessed with that and I'm thinking
about that so what does that entail it
entails I believe my job is to convince
the greatest creators on the planet that
we're going to build something that's
never been seen before and it's it's a
whole new world that I was in at the
beginning of my career and then left and
so now I'm having to resharpen those
skills dealing with agents managers the
artists themselves thinking of a
business model that's never been done to
make sure that the creators are able to
share but that we're making a [__] ton
of money like I'm not taking all this
risk to not make money so that like
learning that new universe is what I'm
and by the way Hollywood is the slowest
moving [__] animal on the face of the
earth and so bringing entrepreneurial
urgency to creative endeavors may end up
being my gift to humanity
like I really think looking out into our
future one of the ways that we're going
to [__] take over is baked into our
culture will be a sense of urgency and
as we get bigger if we can keep that
there we'll just be able to out deliver
like we'll just be able to how deliver
and I can't like I didn't even think
about it at first because the social
content to me is such like just the
first step
but people like wow you guys put out a
lot of content for sure like I don't
understand like you you just it's early
mornings it's late nights it's you know
recording Alexa content at 5:00 in the
morning it's writing Alexa content at
for me what is most people's 2 a.m.
which is 8 p.m.
you know it's writing Alexa content at 8
p.m. it's getting up early to make sure
that I can go to the gym and record it
it's trying a bunch of things knowing
that some are gonna fail it's flying to
New York to meet with a single writer
it's convincing an agency that this
writer that they've never heard of is
the most important writer working today
period and getting them excited to help
him get a project off the ground that
they're not gonna be financially
rewarded for doing that convincing them
that an investment in me is important
enough to invest in this guy their time
and energy because it'll bring attention
to the comic I mean like that whole
puzzle I literally can feel myself I
could go off on this for like hours and
hours I'm utterly fascinated and the
other thing is the microbiome my wife is
forcing me to learn about that because I
just let her suffer for far too long and
is entirely my fault her microbiome is
my fault
and I have to fix it so I am now working
to learn that but I'm actually really
excited about I think it has a massive
implications so those two things I'll
stop there
nice all right we have one more minute I
want to get one last question in because
this episode was so focused on the
professional world your career what are
some takeaways from this episode from
Sara rabo Hagen for people who aren't
career focused so her book extreme you
isn't about being hardcore it isn't
about being extroverted it's about
really saying Who am I what have I grown
to love and how do I do that
like how do I really go after that so
it's not about mountain climbing she
interviews a chef she interviews a
tattoo artist like whatever it is and my
go-to for that like there's
opportunities for beauty and greatness
in every like human endeavor including
parenting right that's the simplest one
for me so if you just want to be the
best parent ever of all time what does
that look like for you like what are the
areas that you want to do differently
what but like really learn about it
really get great at it really engage
with it like don't skim across the
surface and at the end of the day I
think that's her take-home is there is
an opportunity for you to be uniquely
you but you've got to push yourself
you've got to hold yourself to a
standard you've got to get really great
like what does it mean to be a great
parent what does it mean to be a great
marketer what does it mean to have and
so many people are building social feeds
like what does it mean for that to be
great like what metric are you holding
yourself to just this morning I was
thinking you know in another 5 or 10
years we're gonna have the first crop of
dramatically successful entrepreneurs
that say I learned on social and you
know I had these were my five virtual
mentors and I never met any of them but
I went on to build something so we've
had that from books but now we're about
to have the first crop that have come up
on social and I will judge myself based
on whether or not I'm included in that
like Tom bill you impacted the way that
I think is part of the reason that I
founded my company I stayed engaged with
this content all the way through I made
my employees watch his content like I I
will judge myself by that and not just
entrepreneurs but other people that one
just happens to be like it'll happen on
the biggest scale but if people aren't
pointing back to the ideology that I'm
putting out into the world and saying
definitively it influenced my belief
system my behavior my actions and those
actions had a positive outcome for
myself in the world then I'll say I
wasted this time that I did not succeed
awesome alright well that's it for today
that's all the time we have nice
guys thank you so much for joining us if
any of you out there are media
movie TV shows comics focus like if you
love that [__] we are doing the thinking
man's version all around empowerment and
media on a new channel a YouTube channel
impact Theory studios so check that out
definitely subscribe we're gonna be
putting out weekly content we shoot our
next we've already done one we should
our next piece of content tomorrow we're
doing a dry run for a piece that we're
gonna be doing on Twitch later today
this is all coming this is all happening
it's only for the fans of those things
though I don't want everybody to go
there so only go if you're a fan of
those things if you've ever drawn a
lesson from The Karate Kid Star Wars The
Matrix if any of that stuff has
permeated your life that's we're gonna
be talking about how to draw those
lessons and that is going to become the
YouTube hub for the creative that we're
going to be creating so for anybody
that's a fan of that stuff we're eager
to have you join us there so alright
guys if you haven't already subscribed
here be sure to do so and until next
time my friends be legendary
take care
[Music]
[Applause]